---
layout: page
title: "Results & Conclusion"
---

# Results
A study of the impact of gentrification on a neighborhood occurred. Between the 1990-2000 period and 2000-2010, there were 17, 670 candidates for gentrification, and of those 871 transitioned into the advanced stages of gentrification. Gentrification typically occurred on the outskirts of the city and either adjacent to or surrounded by tracts with a higher initial home value. Candidates of gentrification were determined if there was a lower than average home value and higher than average diversity. Of the candidates, the number that was determined to have transitioned into the advanced stages of gentrification had three experiences. The first was an abnormal rise in home value. Home values in urban areas experienced a 0.58% increase between the 1990-2000 period and 2000-2010 which equates to a median dollar increase of $592. Secondly, the growth rate would follow a similar trend to home values as development is more likely in a less impoverished area. Finally, a loss of diversity would indicate the marginalized groups that previously lived there were displaced by whites who have become the more predominant ethnic group. 
 
The relationship between the Median Home Value (MHV) and three independent variables: poverty rate, percent unemployment, and percent professional was examined. Multicollinearity was found between all variables as they are all factors of the neighborhood home value construct. While all variables significantly affect MHV growth, the poverty rate has the largest effect. The relationship was further explored in two models the New Market Tax Credit (NMTC) program and  Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program to determine the greatest neighborhood improvement. 
 
 
# Conclusion
The developed models determined if the New Market Tax Credit (NMTC) program or  Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program resulted in the greatest neighborhood improvement. The impact of the poverty rate, percent unemployment, and percent professional variables was evaluated in relation to both models. The New Market Tax Credit (NMTC) program imparts federal tax credit upon investors within communities that are experiencing economic distress to leverage private investment capital. While the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program, which tracks projects and affordable housing units created since 1987, publicizes its data to keep track of the progress made in Low-Income Housing. The NMTC program had a larger, significant growth rate than the LIHTC program in both the no control variable and poverty rate control. The variable evaluating the growth rate of the treatment group above the secular growth rate was found to be significant for both the NMTC and LIHTC programs. The poverty rate was found to be a good predictor of MHV growth as the variable value was closest to that of the no control variable model for both programs. A linear difference-in-difference approach measures the slopes from a one-unit change in the independent variable to a change in the median house value. Given that growth rates change significantly between time periods for this evaluation, a log-linear approach where a one-unit change in the independent variable is associated with the growth rate of median house values.
